---
title: "Hello, 2019!"
date: "2019-01-27"
---

HEYYYY.  
Again, I didn't do what I said.  
I promised myself to continue that traveling to Bali post but here I am, bringing another topic to the table. I hope you don't mind.

For a recap of 2018, it's almost a month late. But no worries, there are still a few days left before February 2019. Hehe. So, usually I do recap on things that happened around the year on my diary. But! My diary is missing!!! And I don't care!!! Because the first few pages were soooo dark and maybe it's good to get rid of negative vibes from last year.

Obviously, many things happened. I started this blog, and then left it empty for a few months because I was "busy" writing my final paper required for graduation aka Tugas Karya Akhir. YASSS. Your girl is now a fresh graduate! Or through a less-rose tinted-lens, an unemployed! Woohoo! How exciting!

<!--more-->

I had my paper defense on December 21 2018, which was very smooth. _Alhamdulillah_. Mas Edy Prasetyono was my advisor and he was so helpful and kind! Also, my examiner was also very kind so I didn't have many things to revise after the defense. I will attend my second graduation after my primary school "graduation party" (which was closer to _syukuran_ than a party). I will wear pretty dresses I bought online and at Thamcit because I don't want to go to a tailor/atelier. My sister will do my make up, and also going with me to the graduation because my mother couldn't even care less. She's not a fan of going to such event. Can't blame her, really.

That was the highlight of the year. My TKA and final defense. So, what's next for 2019?

Currently, I'm looking for internship opportunities. Going straight for a full-time position doesn't sound good to me because I still want to explore what's out there, beyond International Relations and graphic design.

Yesterday, Juni and I attended two events (which really drained my energy). They were #GlintsXDDD Intro to Product Design and a Melting Cheese meet-up. I enjoyed both events so much because one really opened my eyes about UI/UX Design and the later gave me insights for the new year. So, even though I ended the day with [introvert hangover](https://introvertdear.com/news/introvert-hangover-signs/), but it was worth it!

This year, I want to build my UI/UX Design portfolio because the field is very promising. But even more important is how I enjoyed using my insights and social awareness to solve a problem! I truly enjoyed yesterday's event and I really want to dive deeper.

Second, I want to hone my writing skill because it sucks and I can't rely on novels that I published 10 years ago. So, I need to write more useful, non-_galau_ things on this blog. Do you have any topic ideas?

Third, I want to really get serious about Mancay because I believe it has so much potential! I can't let my ideas go to waste! Also, working on Mancay really helps me to actualize myself. Remember the top of Maslow's pyramid? Yes.

Fourth, I need to learn how to save money and use my time wisely. Because I'm so bad at it that I often embarrassed at myself for not having better control of my resources :)

Fifth, last but not least, I really need to start doing what I say. How? By stop saying that I will do things while I know it's me trying to appease someone/myself. Just learn to say "no", really.

So, that's all! What's your resolution for 2019?
