---
title: "10 Years Later"
date: "2019-06-25"
categories: 
  - "tak-berkategori"
---

So last week I gathered my writings from different platforms and imported them here. I found this one writing, asking myself what would I be in the next 10 years. It was written in 2008, so I guess I have to answer my 13 year-old self about how things turned out. You can read the post from 2008 [here](https://deeperconvs.wordpress.com/2008/12/24/10-tahun-lagi/).

* * *

Hello, 2008 Alline.

How are you? How am I? How are _we?_

I hope the world is being kind to you. I don't have any recollection of that particular phase, but I'm sure you can handle it well. Right?

So you're wondering about how you'll turn out 10 years later. Well, I hope you're not too disappointed or shocked, since none of your guess is right. About being a graphic designer, sure I still like taking freelance job from our closest friends. Think of it as "your friendly neighborhood graphic designer", but rather than neighborhood maybe it's "LINE contact list". Haha.

About being a guitar player, nah we didn't practice that much so all I can do is simple finger picking now. It's enough us to sing and post cover on Instagram or Youtube. But your guess about singer is almost right. We joined a band!!! :) And you're the singer! Could you imagine that?

So, what do I do for a living now?

Well let's rewind first to our college days, okay? I (and eventually you) went to one of the most competitive program at Universitas Indonesia, International Relations! You dreamed of being a diplomat, right? Well, sorry it's not gonna happen. You won't like it being a civil servant, trust me. But IR knowledge still come handy, especially during small talks with people you just come to know. Haha. Brilliant, isn't it?

So after college, I just randomly attended a workshop on Product Design and fell in love with the field of UX. _What is UX,_ you asked? Well, it stands for User Experience! So now you turned out to be a UX Researcher at a startup company. Just a few months in, but I like the work so much! :) You haven't heard of the word UX, have you? Don't worry, I only knew about it probably during my sophomore year in college.

You're currently working with people from all across Southeast Asia. They work remotely from Singapore, Malaysia, and the Philippines. Yes, you now have friends from those countries! Amazing, isn't it? Also, we're using English every day, so your English is getting better and better. Yay! :)

Hmmm, I guess I can use this post as a "question" to the 2029 version of Alline. Yo, so how are things in 2029? Are we still UX Researcher? What's the career like? Am I ever going to take a master's degree? Please tell me I'm dying to know :')
